# RSA

This project implements the RSA cryptosystem from an object-oriented persepctive using Java. My intention for completing this project was to get more experience writing complex applications in Java as well as to get familiar with the Spring Boot framework.

The PrimeNumberGenerator class is primarily responsible for randomly generating the two prime numbers that will be used in the given instance of communication between parties. It has member fields lo and hi (both BigIntegers) that specify within what interval a PrimeNumberGenerator can generate primes from.

The Cipher class is used to encrypt and decrypt messages after they have been appropriately parsed into lists of BigIntegers (more on that later). Each Cipher has an exponent to which the prepared message is raised to and a modulus. The executeCipher() method converts the give "plaintext" list to a "ciphertext" list by mapping the elements in the plaintext to the elements in the ciphertext through modular exponentiation.

The Parser class is used to convert Strings and List<BigIntegers> to each other. Each parser has a BigInteger modulus field. To convert a String to a list, each character in the String is converted to its ASCII value. Next, the number produced from the previous process is broken up into blocks such that no matter the input string, each block is guaranteed to have a value less than the modulus. This blocks are placed into a list that is returned. Converting a List<BigInteger> to a String is more or less the same process as before but done in reverse.
  
The Sender class acts as the individual who wishes to send a message, and the Receiver class acts as the individual who wishes to receive the message. Each Sender has a Cipher, message, and Parser as its fields, and the Receivers have a Cipher, Parser, PrimeNumberGenerator, and two prime numbers. The responsibility of the Sender is to encrypt their message and send it to a Receiver based on the exponent and modulus provided by the Receiver, and the responsibility of the Receiver is to generate their two primes, the modulus (prime1*prime2), phi of the modulus ((prime1-1)(prime2-1)), and the keys, and also to decrypt the message from the Sender. To do this, the Receiver first tells their PrimeNumberGenerator to generate two random prime numbers, and uses these numbers to calculate the modulus and phi of the modulus. The Receiver also determines the public and private keys used in the process by generating an integer relatively prime to phi of the modulus and finding its modular inverse. Thsi number and its inverse are used as the public and priavte key, respectively. The Receiver sets the Cipher's exponent (private key) and the Cipher's modulus and the Parser's modulus, as well as sets the Sender's Cipher's exponent (public key) and their Cipher's and Parser's modulus to the same value as before. The Sender then tells its Parser to parse the message, then feeds the result to their Cipher to encrypt the message. The Sender then tells the Receiver to receive the encrypted message, which the Receiver feeds to its Cipher to decrypt the message. This result is then sent to their parser to convert the list back to the original String message.
  
  Unit tests are also included to get an idea of the correctness of several methods used in this project.
